# Federated Identity Credentials (FIC)

OAuth Client Credentials Grant flow is used for Server-to-Server Authentication. The application server code authenticate itself against IDP (Identity Provider) i.e. Azure AD. In order to do so, you define an Azure App Registration with a CLIENT_ID, and CLIENT_SECRET. It's like the application has its own user id and password that it uses to authenticate and get access to the Azure Resources. 

Every App Registration has one or more Enterprise App / SPN (Service Prinicipal). One per tenant. (will discuss in a different blog).

In the OAuth Client Credentials Grant flow, the flow works like this:
- the app/client (server side code) sends the CLIENT_ID, and CLIENT_SECRET to IDP token endpoint. (e.g.https://)
- IDP validates the credentials and sends an access token.

The challenge with CLIENT_ID, and CLIENT_SECRET is that if it falls into the hand of bad actor, they could exploit your environment. The alternative to this challenge is, configure the application to accept the access token issued to a "User Managed Identity" by a trusted identity provider as a credential. It could be AAD, Facebook, Github, etc... This process is known as **Federated Identity Credentials (FIC)**. First-party (1P) and third-party (3P) Microsoft Entra ID applications can be configured to accept these access tokens as a credential.

With FIC, the access token issued by the trusted identity provider is passed directly as the client_assertion value.

## Setup Managed Identity as FIC
export APP_REGISTRATION_OBJECT_ID=afd3dd3a-43bf-40d2-aab8-4878dcc847ca ##fictokentesting
export MANAGED_IDENTITY_OBJECT_ID=348f8795-4f33-43c0-833c-67358c90ac73

az rest --method POST --uri "https://graph.microsoft.com/beta/applications/${APP_REGISTRATION_OBJECT_ID}/federatedIdentityCredentials" --body "{'name': 'ManagedIdentityFederation', 'issuer': 'https://login.microsoftonline.com/72f988bf-86f1-41af-91ab-2d7cd011db47/v2.0', 'subject': '${MANAGED_IDENTITY_OBJECT_ID}', 'audiences': [ 'api://AzureADTokenExchange' ]}"
