======================================================================================================================
# DefaultAzureCredential() from '@azure/identity'
======================================================================================================================
DefaultAzureCredential is a part of the Azure SDK for JavaScript that provides a default credential mechanism for authenticating your application with Azure services. It simplifies the authentication process by automatically selecting the most appropriate credential based on the environment in which your application is running. It tries several authentication methods in a predefined order until it finds a suitable one. These methods include:

1. Environment Variables: It first checks for Azure-specific environment variables like AZURE_TENANT_ID, AZURE_CLIENT_ID, AZURE_CLIENT_SECRET, and AZURE_CERTIFICATE_PATH. If these variables are set, it uses them to create a credential.

2. Managed Identity: If the application is running in an environment that supports managed identities (like Azure App Service, Azure VMs, Azure Functions, or Azure Cloud Shell), it uses the managed identity to create a credential.

3. Visual Studio Code Credentials: If the application is running in Visual Studio Code, it uses the credentials stored in the user's Visual Studio Code profile to create a credential.

4. Azure CLI Credentials: If the Azure CLI is installed and the user is logged in, it uses the Azure CLI credentials to create a credential.

5. Azure Active Directory Integrated Authentication: If the application is running in a Windows environment and the user is logged in with Azure Active Directory (AAD) credentials, it uses the AAD credentials to create a credential.

======================================================================================================================
# When to use CLIENT ID & SECRET
======================================================================================================================
1. Non-Azure Hosted Applications: Your application is not hosted in Azure, and you need to authenticate into azure services.

2. Development and Testing: When you are running the application locally, and it's not possible to use managed identity.

3. Cross-Cloud Integration: Situation where your application hosted on AWS want to use Azure AD authentication.

4. Service-to-Service Authentication: An application wants to authenticate into another azure service or API in different tenant.

### OAuth 2.0 Flow
It uses the OAuth 2.0 Client Credential Grant Flow.

- Step1: App sends POST request to IDP (Identity Provider / Azure AD) token endpoint with Client ID, Client Secret, and required scopes.

- Step2: IDP responds with an "access token or bearer token" if validation is successful.

- Step3: App uses the access token to authenticate into the desired Azure Resources.

======================================================================================================================
# When to use MANAGED IDENTITY (Old Name: MIS - Microsoft Identity Service)
======================================================================================================================
1. Azure-Hosted Applications: Application running on Azure ***where managed identity can't be enabled***.

2. Increased Security: Eliminate the need to manage and rotate secrets reducing the risk of secret compermise.

3. Easier Management: Simplified access management.

4. Service-to-Service Authentication: An application wants to authenticate into another azure service in the same tenant.

### OAuth 2.0 Flow

- Step1: app requests token from Azure Instance Metadata Service (IMDS) using managed identity.

- Step2: Azure IMDS responds with an access token.

- Step3: application uses the access token to authenticate to the desired Azure resource.


