Authentication is about validating the user credentials (user id and password). It is broadly of 4 types depending on how you transfer the credentials:

- **HTML Forms**
  - HTTP post method sends the userid and password over SSL/TLS.

- **HTTP Basic**
  - Browser throws challenge and user logs in the credentials
  - Sends credential base-64 encrypted over SSL/TLS.

- **Digest Based**
  - Browser throws challenge and user logs in the credentials
  - Uses hashed password 

- **Certificate Based**
  - Private-public key-based certificates are exchanged.

Authentication is also divided into 2 types based on how they manage the subsequent calls to the server.

- **Stateful Authentication**
  - It uses the server session to maintain the authentication state and sends a session Id to the user to use it for subsequent calls.
  - It has scalability issue since session store is specific to a server. Each server in the load-balanced environment has its own session store. In order to scale up, you will require a session cache server to store all sessions outside the web servers.
  - Revoking access is easy. You can simply remove the session from the store.

- **Stateless Authentication**
  - It uses signed or encrypted tokens with {Id, Name, Role....}. Signed with private key.
  - It stores the token on the user browser cookie and the authentication is decentralized. (We will learn the **_decentralization_** in next sections).
  - On subsequent calls, the token is decrypted by public key and validated. 
  - Revoking access is bit complex because of decentralization. Security can be compromised if someone has the token. 
    - To address this, usually token is given a short expiry time. 
    - Or you can setup a token server where you store the token so that it can be revoked from there.