Single sign-on (SSO) is the process by which a user can log in to multiple applications using a single set of credentials. This is a handy feature and efficient considering the number of websites these days and most of them asking for authentication. We all know that we can't keep track of so many credential sets for each of the applications. SSO came to the rescue!!!

Instead of establishing their identity over and over, the user is authenticated once and can then access several different services and applications.

An example of one such feature is Google. With a single login, you can access all of their services like Gmail, Photos, Drive, and many more. Other applications also allow users to use Google login for authentication provided they have their system integrated with Identity Providers like Google, Facebook, etc. Type of SSOs are below:

**SAML:** (used for both Authentication and Authorization)
SAML is an XML-based standard for exchanging authentication and authorization data between IdPs and service providers to verify the user’s identity and permissions, then grant or deny their access to services.

SAML is an open standard that has become one of the core standards for SSO. SAML uses an XML document called Assertion (that contains the user authorization) that the Identity Provider sends to the service provider.


**OAuth2:** (used for client to server authorization only)
OAuth is a newer standard than SAML, and it was jointly developed by Google and Twitter beginning in 2006. It was developed in part to compensate for SAML’s deficiencies on mobile platforms and is based on JSON rather than XML. OAuth2 uses JWT tokens widely and hence is lighter and faster than SAML.

- Token Grant
  - OAuth2 grant allows clients to access protected resources on behalf of a resource owner.
  - Specifications do not specify how authentication is done.
- Token Types: Bearer, MAC
- Token Formats: **JWT** (json-based token)

```
Authorization: Bearer 12dwes9923h23233d
```

**API Key:** (used for server to sever authorization only) 
- Mostly used by server applications. (server to server authorization)
- Provides access to APIs to other server or services.
- Purpose is to identify the origin of the request (valid for specific domain or ip). It does not matter who the user is.
- E.g. API Key for Google Maps

```
Authorization: Apikey 12dwes9923h23233d
```

**Open Id Connect:** (is an identity layer on top of OAuth. It used for Authentication)
OIDC sits on top of OAuth 2.0 to add information about the user and enable the SSO process. It allows one login session to be used across multiple applications.

Example of OpenID is using Google Account to access Google, Contact, Photo, Drive, or any 3rd party app etc...

